Regex first steps (#402)
arcus/education_modules: regular_expressions_basics/regular_expressions_basics.md

estimated_time_in_minutes: 60

@pre_reqs
Learners should have some knowledge about patterns in biomedical data and understand the utility of regular expressions (regex).  For an introduction to these concepts, consider the [Demystifying Regular Expressions](https://liascript.github.io/course/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/education_modules/main/demystifying_regular_expressions/demystifying_regular_expressions.md#1) module.
@end

@learning_objectives  
After completion of this module, learners will be able to:

- Define a simple alphanumeric pattern in regex notation
- List common ranges and character groups in regex
- Quantify characters appearing optionally, once, or multiple times in regex
- Test regular expressions in a browser
@end

@version_history 
No previous versions.
@end

import: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/education_modules/main/_module_templates/macros.md
-->

# Regular Expressions Basics

@overview

## Regular Expression Refresher

> As a reminder, the word *regular* (like *regulate*) comes from the Latin root for "rule": *regula*.  A **regular expression** (also known as "regex") is a specific way to **express** a **rule** for a pattern, such as "three or more upper case letters followed by exactly two digits, the first of which cannot be a 0, followed by a decimal point and two more digits".  Regular expressions can look like an odd combination of characters.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a reminder, the word *regular* (like *regulate*) comes from the Latin root for "rule": *regula*.  A **regular expression** (also known as "regex") is a specific way to **express** a **rule** for a pattern, such as "three or more upper case letters followed by exactly two digits, the first of which cannot be a 0, followed by a decimal point and two more digits."  Regular expressions can look like an odd combination of characters.  
```

> One example? `[A-Z]{3,}[1-9]\d\.\d{2}` represents the "three or more upper case letters" pattern described above.

Reviewer: Maybe phrase this so as to make it clear that you aren't expecting learners to already know this, this is an example of where they will get by the end, eg:

"By the end of this module you will be able to express this pattern as the regular expression `[A-Z]{3,}[1-9]\d\.\d{2}`."

Author: Agree, will add in new commit!

Regular expressions are useful to biomedical researchers because they can allow you to find, replace, or extract text that matches patterns you define.  These text patterns might appear in your data (for example, clinical notes), in metadata (such as column names), in your data analysis scripts (for example, where you define hexadecimal codes for color), and in file names.  

> A good place to practice regular expressions is an online regex testing website.  We like "Regex 101", at https://www.regex101.com, but you can also search online for "regex checker" to find other, similar websites.  Regex 101 allows you to enter your regular expression as well as some sample text that you want to apply the regular expression to.  We will ask you to use this website to gain practice during this module!

Reviewer: This paragraph doesn't quite fit into this module, now that the regex101.com stuff is in a different module. I think it can just come out.

Author: Yes, but what if people don't do each module?  Ideally each module should be freestanding, so a bit of "hey this is the one we suggest" makes sense in each module, I think?

Reviewer: Ah, good point! I think I was mainly thrown by the last sentence promising that we will have them practice using online checkers. How is this:

```suggestion
A good place to practice regular expressions is an online regex testing website.  We like "Regex 101", at https://www.regex101.com, but you can also search online for "regex checker" to find other, similar websites.  Regex 101 allows you to enter your regular expression as well as some sample text that you want to apply the regular expression to.  You can use this website to gain practice with any of the rules you learn in this module.

The [Regex 101 section](link) in the Demystifying Regular Expressions module shows and example of how to use the website.
```

* Other types of spaces are entered using special tokens.  A tab is represented by `\t`, new line by `\n`, and the carriage return as `\r`.

Symbols
------

* Some non-alphanumeric symbols, like the underscore (`_`), hash mark (`#`), percent (`%`), and equals (`=`), can also just be put in as-is: `%` is the regular expression that matches the percent sign (%), and `#` matches the hash mark (#).
* There are other symbols called **metacharacters** that have special meanings in regular expressions, and indicating you want to look for those symbols is slightly trickier. 
* It can be hard to remember which symbols are metacharacters, but that comes with practice.

On the next page, we'll learn about metacharacters.

### Tokens: Metacharacters

The following **metacharacters** are symbols that have special meaning in regex.  This means that if you want to add these symbols to a pattern, you'll need to indicate you are referring to the literal character, and not using the symbol in its special regex way.  

`. ^ $ * + ? { } [ ] \ | ( ) - /`

> If you want to refer to one of these special characters in regex (for example, if your pattern includes square brackets or parentheses or periods), you can add a backslash (` \ `) just before the symbol. The backslash in regex does a couple of different things, but here, the use of a backslash indicates "I mean this character literally, I'm not using this character's special powers", and this is called **escaping** or an **escape sequence**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to refer to one of these special characters in regex (for example, if your pattern includes square brackets or parentheses or periods), you can add a backslash (` \ `) just before the symbol. The backslash in regex does a couple of different things, but here, the use of a backslash indicates "I mean this character literally, I'm not using this character's special powers." This is called **escaping** or an **escape sequence**.
```

In most uses of regex, if you're not sure if a (non-alphanumeric) character has a special meaning or not, you can put a backslash in front of it just in case.  So, for example, the hash symbol `#` doesn't have a special function in regex.  But if you weren't sure, you can usually add the backslash, giving `\#` to indicate `#`.  It's not required, but most regular expression parsers will realize what you mean.

</div>

* To indicate a question mark in your pattern, you'd escape it like this: `\?`.
* A period would similarly use the backslash: `\.`
* Want to indicate a left curly brace? `\{`
* Vertical pipe? `\|`
* A backslash itself?  `\\ `
* A hyphen/dash? `\-`
* A percent sign? Either `%` by itself, because it's not a metacharacter, or `\%` because you weren't sure and added the escape sequence just in case.

<div class = "important">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Important note</b><br>

> Importantly, don't try to use the backslash this way in front of letters or numbers. If you add `\d` to your pattern, for example, that doesn't mean "the literal letter d", it means "any digit 0-9".  If you add `\7` to your regular expression, you'll get an error -- `\7` is bad syntax for regular expressions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't try to use the backslash this way in front of letters or numbers. If you add `\d` to your pattern, for example, that doesn't mean "the literal letter d", it means "any digit 0-9".  If you add `\7` to your regular expression, you'll get an error -- `\7` is bad syntax for regular expressions. 
```

There is already "important" two words earlier in the highlight box title.

We'll talk about other uses of backslash in an upcoming section.

</div>

Combining letters, numbers, spaces, symbols, and escape sequences
----

You can combine escaped characters and normal characters.  For example, if your pattern includes ".co.nz #5", you would express that as `\.co\.nz #5`.

### Quiz 1: Specific Characters

Which regular expression below will match the text "25% (20) claim:"?  Check all that apply.

[[X]] `25\% \(20\) claim\:`
[[X]] `25% \(20\) claim:`
[[ ]] `25% (20) claim:`
[[ ]] `25\% (20) claim\:`

> [[?]] Hint: Feeling stuck?  Try using [Regex 101](https://www.regex101.com) and plug in the regex patterns given in the answers as well as the test string posed in the question.

Reviewer: Because regex101 is now introduced in a separate module, maybe add a sentence to this hint about "trying out this online tool for checking regular expressions" here.

Author: Again, I'm thinking that not everyone will take each module, so a bit of specificity here is warranted.  Thoughts?

Reviewer: I now retract this comment, in light of your responses the the other regex 101 comment and my response to that :)

* `:` is not a metacharacter for regex, so you can add it as is, with `:`, or, if you weren't sure if `:` was a metacharacter, you can also "escape" it, giving `\:`.

This means that either `25\% \(20\) claim\:` or `25% \(20\) claim:` are regular expressions that match the given text.  On the other hand, `25% (20) claim:` and `25\% (20) claim\:` do not match the given text, because they fail to escape the parentheses.

</div>
***

### Tokens: Special Groups

Often, we want to indicate that a group of characters are all equally valid in a location.  For example, a pattern might include any digit at all in a particular location, or any of the letters "A", "Q", or "Y" at another location.  This is very typical, and this is where regular "find" or "find and replace" tools in software fail, while regular expressions prove useful.

There are several ways to indicate groups of possible characters, and we'll go over the most common ones below.

Metasequences
------  

Digits and some other groups are so common they are predefined with special **metasequences**.  

* Any single digit (0-9) is represented `\d`.  
* Any whitespace character like space or tab? That's `\s`.

> * Any character at all (a wildcard)? `.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Any character at all (called a **wildcard**)? `.`
```

You can combine these metasquences with what we've already learned.  For example, if the pattern we're trying to define includes a single digit, the letter Z, some other character that could be anything, and the letter J, we could put that in a regular expression as `\dZ.J`.

Custom Character Sets
------

Other groups of characters can be defined by square brackets.  You can type each member of the character set between square brackets.

* One of the letters `Y` or `N` could be written as `[YN]` (or `[NY]`)
* Either the number 0 or the number 1? `[01]` (or `[10]`)

As we've done before, you can combine these.  For example, if the pattern we're describing begins with a single digit, then a hyphen, then either a "Y" or "N", we would write that in regex as `\d\-[YN]`.

Ranges
-----

> You can also use square brackets to define a range of [Unicode characters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Unicode_characters), by giving the first character in the set, a hyphen, and the last character in the set.  For example, the lowercase letters appear in alphabetical order in Unicode, so we could indicate "the letter `c`, the letter `h`, and all the letters in between" by writing `[c-h]`.

Reviewer: Talking about a "range of unicode characters" seems a little jargon-heavy to learners who might not be familiar with unicode. I suggest rephrasing ranges to focus on numeric ranges, and then breaking this whole page into 3 sub-pages:

Character Sets:
- Metasequences (predefined sets)
- Custom Sets
Ranges:
focus on numbers, then introduce Unicode as a way to think of letters as also having orders/ranges.
Include a "learn more" box with some background on Unicode ranges actually being sequential ranges.
Letters:
All the cool alphabet stuff!
Also add an example like [A-Da-d] because maybe you don't want to use the whole alphabet.

Author: oooh yes I think you're right.  Will address in a new commit.

Reviewer: I love the way you have divided this! 

Would you be up for making the 4 subsections actual pages rather than subsections on one long page? That will make them easier for learners to refer back to, or find exactly the part they want in the table of contents.

Reviewer: @paytonk I think getting these subsections into the table of contents as subpages is they only suggestion I made that you didn't respond to.

"Not gonna do that" is a fine response, I just want to make you saw the suggestion.

You can even put two or more ranges in square brackets, right next to one another.

* Any digit 0-7 can appear, but not other digits? `[0-7]`

> * Any digit 0-3 or 7-9? `[0-37-9]` represents the two ranges.  Don't put a space between the ranges, because the space will be interpreted as "or, a space might appear here, too"!

Reviewer: Maybe add a note here about remembering that this is defining a single character, so there is no confusion that you might mean the number "37" because that uses two characters.

Author: I agree, yes!

Author: I addressed this in a "care" box in the restructured page (into which I inserted a new example):

Remember that a token represents a **single character**, so it might be helpful to read something like `[025-8]` aloud one character at a time: "zero or two or five through eight", instead of saying to yourself "twenty five through eight," which is confusing!

Sometimes we know there should be exactly one of something (for example, exactly one `@` in an email address).  Sometimes there can be an optional character (like the optional parentheses around the area code of a U.S. phone number).  Sometimes there are a specific number of characters from the same group (like exactly three letters or five digits).  Maybe there's a range, such as at least 2 letters but not more than 20.  

Regular expressions allow you to quantify characters in a pattern.  You do this by adding a quantifier after your token.

* An optional token, which might not appear at all or might appear at most once can be represented with a `?` quantifier.  For example, a phone number pattern that might begin with the number 1 or might omit it could begin with `1?`
* An optional token that could repeat zero, one, or multiple times can be quantified with an asterisk (`*`).  For example, a phone number can have an optional extension that has one, two, or more digits.  That could be represented as `\d*`.
* At least one character, maybe more? That's `+`. So, a first name has to have at least one letter, but could have more: `[A-Za-z]+`

> * A specific range, like one to three, but not less than one or more than three? That's `{1,3}`.  For example, maybe you know that in your health system, medical record numbers could have 6, 7, or 8 digits: `\d{6,8}`

Reviewer: Since the quiz question uses a 2 digit number, maybe the example medical record number could have 9,10, or 11 digits so that learners can see that these quantifier numbers (unlike those in ranges) can be more than one character.

Author: I like it!  Great idea!

<!--

author:   Joy Payton
email:    paytonk@chop.edu
version:  1.0.0
current_version_description: Initial version
module_type: standard
docs_version: 1.0.0
language: en
narrator: UK English Female
mode: Textbook
previous_sequential_module: demystifying_regular_expressions

title: Regular Expressions Basics

comment:  Begin to use regular expressions, or regex, for simple pattern matching.

long_description: Regular expressions, or regex, are a way to specify patterns (such as the pattern that defines a valid email address, medical record number, or credit card number).  Learn to compose basic regular expressions in order to find and use important data.

estimated_time_in_minutes: 60

@pre_reqs

> Learners should have some knowledge about patterns in biomedical data and understand the utility of regular expressions (regex).  For an introduction to these concepts, consider the [Demystifying Regular Expressions](https://liascript.github.io/course/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/education_modules/main/demystifying_regular_expressions/demystifying_regular_expressions.md#1) module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learners should have some knowledge about patterns in biomedical data and understand the utility of regular expressions (regex).  For an introduction to these concepts, consider the [Demystifying Regular Expressions](https://liascript.github.io/course/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/education_modules/main/demystifying_regular_expressions/demystifying_regular_expressions.md#1) module. Having previously encountered an online regular expression checker may also be useful.
```

@end

@learning_objectives  
After completion of this module, learners will be able to:

- Define a simple alphanumeric pattern in regex notation
- List common ranges and character groups in regex
- Quantify characters appearing optionally, once, or multiple times in regex

> - Test regular expressions in a browser

Reviewer: This learning objective is now in demystifying regex (I think)

Author: wait, which learning objective do you mean?  The test regular expressions in a browser?

Reviewer: Yup!

@end

@version_history 
No previous versions.
@end

> 

Reviewer: More metadata!

I propose a new `regex` sequence since these really are one module split into 3 parts.

```suggestion
good_first_module: false
coding_required: true
coding_level: basic
sequence_name: regex
previous_sequential_module: demystifying_regular_expressions
@sets_you_up_for

@end 
@depends_on_knowledge_available_in
- demystifying_regular_expressions
@end
```

A good place to practice regular expressions is an online regex testing website.  We like "Regex 101", at https://www.regex101.com, but you can also search online for "regex checker" to find other, similar websites.  Regex 101 allows you to enter your regular expression as well as some sample text that you want to apply the regular expression to.  We will ask you to use this website to gain practice during this module!

## Simple Regular Expressions

To describe a pattern, you need to indicate what characters you expect to see using **tokens**, and how many of them, using **quantifiers**.  Tokens can be very simple and intuitive (the token for expressing the letter "A" is just `A`) or can be more complex (the token for any digit 0-9 is `\d`).  Quantifiers can be symbols such as `*` or `+`, or can include a number (the quantifier for "exactly two" is `{2}`).

> We'll work with simple regular expressions in this module by describing two principal tasks you need to do in regex: indicating which characters are valid at a given point in a pattern with various kinds of tokens, and then quantifying how many of those characters you expect to find there using quantifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll work with simple regular expressions in this module by describing two principal tasks you need to do in regex: 
1. Indicating which characters are valid at a given point in a pattern with various kinds of tokens. 
2. Quantifying how many of those characters you expect to find there using quantifiers.
```

</div>

* To indicate a question mark in your pattern, you'd escape it like this: `\?`.
* A period would similarly use the backslash: `\.`
* Want to indicate a left curly brace? `\{`
* Vertical pipe? `\|`
* A backslash itself?  `\\ `
* A hyphen/dash? `\-`
* A percent sign? Either `%` by itself, because it's not a metacharacter, or `\%` because you weren't sure and added the escape sequence just in case.

<div class = "important">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Important note</b><br>

Don't try to use the backslash this way in front of letters or numbers. If you add `\d` to your pattern, for example, that doesn't mean "the literal letter d", it means "any digit 0-9".  If you add `\7` to your regular expression, you'll get an error -- `\7` is bad syntax for regular expressions. 

We'll talk about other uses of backslash in an upcoming section.

</div>

Combining letters, numbers, spaces, symbols, and escape sequences
----

You can combine escaped characters and normal characters.  For example, if your pattern includes ".co.nz #5", you would express that as `\.co\.nz #5`.

> ### Quiz 1: Specific Characters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Quiz: Specific Characters
```
Formatting to match our guidelines

Let's take this character by character.

* `25` can be put in the pattern just as it appears: `25`.
* `%` is not a metacharacter for regex, so you can add it as is, with `%`, or, if you weren't sure if `%` was a metacharacter, you can also "escape" it, giving `\%`.
* The space after the percent can be added as is: ` `
* The opening parenthesis is a metacharacter, so it **must** be added to the pattern with a backslash: `\(`
* The numbers `20` should be added as is: `20`
* The closing parenthesis is a metacharacter, so it **must** be added to the pattern with a backslash: `\)`
* The space after the closing parenthesis can be added as-is:  ` `
* The letters `claim` can be added just as they appear: `claim`
* `:` is not a metacharacter for regex, so you can add it as is, with `:`, or, if you weren't sure if `:` was a metacharacter, you can also "escape" it, giving `\:`.

This means that either `25\% \(20\) claim\:` or `25% \(20\) claim:` are regular expressions that match the given text.  On the other hand, `25% (20) claim:` and `25\% (20) claim\:` do not match the given text, because they fail to escape the parentheses.

</div>
***

### Tokens: Special Groups

> Often, we want to indicate that a group of characters are all equally valid in a location.  For example, a pattern might include any digit at all in a particular location, or any of the letters "A", "Q", or "Y" at another location.  This is very typical, and this is where regular "find" or "find and replace" tools in software fail, while regular expressions prove useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, we want to indicate that a group of characters are all equally valid in a location.  For example, a pattern might include any digit at all in a particular location, or any of the letters A, Q, or Y at another location.  This is very typical, and this is where regular "find" or "find and replace" tools in software fail, while regular expressions prove useful.
```

> There are several ways to indicate groups of possible characters, and we'll go over the most common ones below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several ways to indicate groups of possible characters, and we'll go over the most common ones next.
```

(this assumes you accept my suggestion of subpages for what comes next)

Lists
-----

Groups of characters can be added to a custom **list**.  Each member of the custom character set is added to a list, with no separators, that appears between square brackets.

* One of the letters `Y` or `N` could be written as `[YN]` (or `[NY]`)
* Either the number 0 or the number 1? `[01]` (or `[10]`)

<div class = "important">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Important note</b><br>

> Don't include separators in your list!  `[Y,N]` is not the same as `[YN]`.  The first is a token that represents "either `Y`, or a comma (`,`), or `N`", and the second is a token that represents "either `Y` or `N`".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't include separators in your list!  `[Y,N]` is not the same as `[YN]`.  The first is a token that represents "either `Y`, or a comma (`,`), or `N`," and the second is a token that represents "either `Y` or `N`."
```

</div>

You can combine list tokens with other tokens.  For example, if the pattern we're describing begins with a single "A", then a hyphen, then either a "Y" or "N", we would write that in regex as `A\-[YN]`.

Metasequences
------  

The list of all digits and some other lists of characters are so commonly used they are predefined with special **metasequences**.  Writing `[0123456789]` is valid, but there's a shorter way to express it: `\d`.

* Any single digit (0, 1, 2,... 8, 9) is represented `\d`.  
* Any whitespace character like space or tab? That's `\s`.

> * Any character at all (called a **wildcard**)? `.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Any character at all (called a **wildcard**)? Type a single period `.`
```

</div>

You can even put two or more ranges in square brackets, right next to one another.  Again, don't put a separator between your two ranges.

* Any digit 0-3 or 7-9? The token `[0-37-9]` represents a single character that falls into one of the two possible ranges 0-3 or 7-9.

<div class = "learn-more">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">Learning connection</b><br>

Characters, whether they are numbers, letters, other symbols, or whitespace, are represented in [Unicode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Unicode_characters). Unicode includes over 100,000 characters, each of which has a hexidecimal (base 16) code associated with it. When we give a range in a regular expression, we're actually giving the character range in the underlying Unicode.  For example, in the range `[1-4]`, we're actually referring to the Unicode characters U+0031 (`1`) through U+0034 (`4`) and saying that any Unicode character between (and including) U+0031 and U+0034 is acceptable.

> Unicode tends to keep sets of character "in order", abiding by previous conventions.  For example, the digits appear in order from `0` (U+0030) to `9` (U+0039).  Letters also appear in Unicode in their typical order.   `A` (U+0041) is followed by `B` (U+0042), and so on, until `Z` (U+005A).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unicode tends to keep sets of character in order, abiding by previous conventions.  For example, the digits appear in order from `0` (U+0030) to `9` (U+0039).  Letters also appear in Unicode in their typical order.   `A` (U+0041) is followed by `B` (U+0042), and so on, until `Z` (U+005A).  
```

[[ ]] `\ `
[[X]] `9`
[[X]] `_`
[[ ]] `!`
[[X]] `.`
[[ ]] `ö`
[[X]] `o`
[[X]] `O`
[[X]] `-`
[[ ]] ` ` (space)
[[?]] Hint: Feeling stuck?  Try using [Regex 101](https://www.regex101.com) and plug in the regex pattern given in the question as well as the test characters in the answers.
***
<div class = "answer">

Let's look at the regular expression.

* `A-Za-z` indicates that all unaccented upper and lowercase Latin letters are included, so `o` and `O` are valid for the first part of an email address.  However, `ö` is left out and not included.
* `\d` indicates that any digit is acceptable as well, so `9` is valid.
* `\-` indicates that a literal hyphen / dash is included in our character set, so `-` is valid.
* `\.` indicates that a literal period is included in our character set, so `.` is valid.
* `_` indicates an underscore, so `_` is also acceptable.

There is no mention of a literal backslash, exclamation point, or space, so those are all excluded, as is our letter with an umlaut: `ö`.

</div>
***

### Quantifiers: How Many Characters?

> So far, we've gone over single characters like `7`, metasequences like `\d`, and ranges like `[0-9]`, all to define what's valid for a single character in a pattern.  These ways to define what a character could be are collectively called **tokens**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, we've gone over single characters like `7`, lists like `[YN]`, metasequences like `\d`, and ranges like `[0-9]`, all to define what's valid for a single character in a pattern.  These ways to define what a character could be are collectively called **tokens**.  
```

* At least one character, maybe more? That's `+`. So, a first name has to have at least one letter, but could have more: `[A-Za-z]+`
* A specific range, like one to three, but not less than one or more than three? That's `{1,3}`.  For example, maybe you know that in your health system, medical record numbers could have 9, 10, or 11 digits: `\d{9,11}`
* An open ended range, such as "two or more" can be written by omitting the upper boundary: `{2,}`.

<div class = "care">
<b style="color: rgb(var(--color-highlight));">A little encouragement...</b><br>

Regex rules can be confusing, and even after lots of practice using regular expressions, it can be time saving and helpful to use a regex checker like [Regex 101](https://www.regex101.com) to test out your pattern with some sample strings.  Add your pattern and put in a few test strings -- some that match your desired pattern, and some that don't, so you can see if you're getting the pattern description right in your regex code.

</div>

> ### Quiz 3: Putting It All Together 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Quiz: Putting It All Together 
```

The regular expression that gives the pattern for American Express credit card numbers is given as:

`3[47]\d{13}`

Which of the following is true?  Select all that apply.

[[ ]] American Express credit card numbers start with `347`.
[[X]] American Express credit card numbers start with `34` or `37`.
[[ ]] American Express credit card numbers start with `3` or `47`.
[[ ]] American Express credit card numbers have 13 digits.
[[X]] American Express credit card numbers have 15 digits.
[[ ]] American Express credit card numbers have 16 digits.
[[ ]] American Express credit card numbers have a flexible number of digits.
[[?]] Hint: Feeling stuck?  Try using [Regex 101](https://www.regex101.com)!
***
<div class = "answer">

Let's parse `3[47]\d{13}`.  This pattern indicates that American Express credit card numbers:

* Begin with a `3`
* Are followed with either a `4` or a `7`
* Then include 13 digits between `0` and `9`, inclusive.

This means that American Express credit card numbers will start with `34` or `37` and will have 15 digits.

</div>
***

## Additional Resources

We only scratched the surface of regular expressions.  Want to learn more?

> Here are some good "cheat sheets":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some good cheat sheets:
```

> * A fairly comprehensive cheat sheet is available [from Dave Child](https://cheatography.com/davechild/cheat-sheets/regular-expressions/).
> * There's another good cheat sheet for regex [from DataCamp](https://images.datacamp.com/image/upload/v1665049611/Marketing/Blog/Regular_Expressions_Cheat_Sheet.pdf.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Dave Child's cheat sheet](https://cheatography.com/davechild/cheat-sheets/regular-expressions/) is fairly comprehensive.
* [DataCamp's cheat sheet for regex](https://images.datacamp.com/image/upload/v1665049611/Marketing/Blog/Regular_Expressions_Cheat_Sheet.pdf) is another good option.
```
Improving link text for accessibility

By the end of this module you will be able to express this pattern as the regular expression `[A-Z]{3,}[1-9]\d\.\d{2}`.

Regular expressions are useful to biomedical researchers because they can allow you to find, replace, or extract text that matches patterns you define.  These text patterns might appear in your data (for example, clinical notes), in metadata (such as column names), in your data analysis scripts (for example, where you define hexadecimal codes for color), and in file names.  

A good place to practice regular expressions is an online regex testing website.  We like **Regex 101** at https://www.regex101.com, but you can also search online for "regex checker" to find other, similar websites.  Regex 101 allows you to enter your regular expression as well as some sample text that you want to apply the regular expression to.  You can use this website to gain practice with any of the rules you learn in this module.

> The [Regex 101 section](link) in the Demystifying Regular Expressions module shows and example of how to use the website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Regex 101 section](https://liascript.github.io/course/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/education_modules/main/demystifying_regular_expressions/demystifying_regular_expressions.md#6) in the Demystifying Regular Expressions module shows and example of how to use the website.
```
